[Guide] Quantize your Diffusion Models with `bnb` (#10012)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/en/quantization/bitsandbytes.md

# bitsandbytes

[bitsandbytes](https://huggingface.co/docs/bitsandbytes/index) is the easiest option for quantizing
a model to 8 and 4-bit. 8-bit quantization multiplies outliers in fp16 with non-outliers in int8,
converts the non-outlier values back to fp16, and then adds them together to return the weights in
fp16. This reduces the degradative effect outlier values have on a model's performance.

4-bit quantization compresses a model even further, and it is commonly used with
[QLoRA](https://hf.co/papers/2305.14314) to finetune quantized LLMs.

This guide demonstrates how quantization can enable running
[FLUX.1-dev](https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev)
on less than 16GB of VRAM and even on a free Google

> Colab instance.

Reviewer: nit: We don't need four lines four lines for this. Or is this a personal preference?

Author: It was more of a personal preference. I like wrapped text as it provides me a smaller screen to view the entire blog post.

If you want me to undo the changes, I would happily do it.

The wrapped text does not change how the final blog post would look.

Reviewer: It takes time to decipher if the changes are related to content or formatting. Too many formatting changes are in this PR as I stated in the other comment. So, I will leave this to @stevhliu.

Reviewer 2: If you don't mind, @ariG23498, can you undo the breaks as suggested so the content is more accessible to everyone please? 🙂

![comparison image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/quant-bnb/comparison.png)

To use bitsandbytes, make sure you have the following libraries installed:

```bash
pip install diffusers transformers accelerate bitsandbytes -U
```

Now you can quantize a model by passing a [`BitsAndBytesConfig`] to [`~ModelMixin.from_pretrained`].
This works for any model in any modality, as long as it supports loading with

> [Accelerate](https://hf.co/docs/accelerate/index) and contains `torch.nn.Linear` layers.

Reviewer: Seems like a lot of the changes are related to breaking of long lines? If possible, could we avoid those?

```py
pipe = FluxPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    transformer=transformer_8bit,
    text_encoder_2=text_encoder_2_8bit,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device_map="auto",
)

pipe_kwargs = {
    "prompt": "A cat holding a sign that says hello world",
    "height": 1024,
    "width": 1024,
    "guidance_scale": 3.5,
    "num_inference_steps": 50,
    "max_sequence_length": 512,
}

image = pipe(
    generator=torch.Generator("cpu").manual_seed(0),
    **pipe_kwargs,
).images[0]

image.resize((224, 224))
```

<div class="flex justify-center">
   <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/quant-bnb/8bit.png"/>
</div>

Once a model is quantized, you can push the model to the Hub with the [`~ModelMixin.push_to_hub`] method.
The quantization `config.json` file is pushed first, followed by the quantized model weights.
You can also save the serialized 8-bit models locally with [`~ModelMixin.save_pretrained`].

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="4-bit">

Quantizing a model in 4-bit reduces your memory-usage by 4x.

> bitsandbytes` is supported in both Transformers and Diffusers, so you can can quantize both the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
bitsandbytes is supported in both Transformers and Diffusers, so you can can quantize both the
```

# bitsandbytes

[bitsandbytes](https://huggingface.co/docs/bitsandbytes/index) is the easiest option for quantizing
a model to 8 and 4-bit. 8-bit quantization multiplies outliers in fp16 with non-outliers in int8,
converts the non-outlier values back to fp16, and then adds them together to return the weights in
fp16. This reduces the degradative effect outlier values have on a model's performance.

4-bit quantization compresses a model even further, and it is commonly used with
[QLoRA](https://hf.co/papers/2305.14314) to finetune quantized LLMs.

> We'll work with the
> [FLUX.1-dev model](https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev),
> demonstrating how quantization can help you run it on less than 16GB of VRAM—even on a free Google
> Colab instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide demonstrates how quantization can enable running
[FLUX.1-dev](https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev)
on less than 16GB of VRAM and even on a free Google
Colab instance.
```

![comparison image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/quant-bnb/comparison.png)

To use bitsandbytes, make sure you have the following libraries installed:

```bash
pip install diffusers transformers accelerate bitsandbytes -U
```

Now you can quantize a model by passing a [`BitsAndBytesConfig`] to [`~ModelMixin.from_pretrained`].
This works for any model in any modality, as long as it supports loading with
[Accelerate](https://hf.co/docs/accelerate/index) and contains `torch.nn.Linear` layers.

<hfoptions id="bnb">
<hfoption id="8-bit">

> Quantizing a model in 8-bit halves the memory-usage:
> 
> As `bitsandbytes` is supported in both `transformers` and `diffusers` we can quantize both the
> `FluxTransformer2DModel` and `T5EncoderModel`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quantizing a model in 8-bit halves the memory-usage.

bitsandbytes is supported in both Transformers and Diffusers, so you can quantize both the
[`FluxTransformer2DModel`] and [`~transformers.T5EncoderModel`].
```

```py
from diffusers import BitsAndBytesConfig as DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig
from transformers import BitsAndBytesConfig as TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig

from diffusers import FluxTransformer2DModel
from transformers import T5EncoderModel

quant_config = TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_8bit=True,
)

text_encoder_2_8bit = T5EncoderModel.from_pretrained(

>     "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
```

    subfolder="text_encoder_2",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)

quant_config = DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_8bit=True,
)

transformer_8bit = FluxTransformer2DModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="transformer",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)
```

By default, all the other modules such as `torch.nn.LayerNorm` are converted to `torch.float16`.

> You can change the data type of these modules with the `torch_dtype` parameter if you want:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can change the data type of these modules with the `torch_dtype` parameter.
```

    quantization_config=quantization_config
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)
```

By default, all the other modules such as `torch.nn.LayerNorm` are converted to `torch.float16`. You can change the data type of these modules with the `torch_dtype` parameter if you want:
By default, all the other modules such as `torch.nn.LayerNorm` are converted to `torch.float16`.
You can change the data type of these modules with the `torch_dtype` parameter if you want:

```py

> from diffusers import FluxTransformer2DModel, BitsAndBytesConfig

Reviewer 2: I don't think you need to show the entire code snippet here since it is a bit lengthy and redundant. You can just do something like the below:

```py
text_encoder_2_8bit = T5EncoderModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev,
    subfolder="text_encoder_2",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float32,
)
```

text_encoder_2_8bit = T5EncoderModel.from_pretrained(

>     "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
```

    subfolder="text_encoder_2",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float32,
)

quant_config = DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_8bit=True,
)

transformer_8bit = FluxTransformer2DModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="transformer",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float32,
)
```

Let's generate an image using our quantized models.

```py
pipe = FluxPipeline.from_pretrained(

>     "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
```

    transformer=transformer_8bit,
    text_encoder_2=text_encoder_2_8bit,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,

>     device_map="auto",

Reviewer 2: Would be helpful to add a quick sentence describing what `device_map` does.

)

pipe_kwargs = {
    "prompt": "A cat holding a sign that says hello world",
    "height": 1024,
    "width": 1024,
    "guidance_scale": 3.5,
    "num_inference_steps": 50,
    "max_sequence_length": 512,
}

image = pipe(
    generator=torch.Generator("cpu").manual_seed(0),
    **pipe_kwargs,
).images[0]

image.resize((224, 224))
```

> ![8 bit image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/quant-bnb/8bit.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<div class="flex justify-center">
   <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/quant-bnb/8bit.png"/>
</div>
```

Once a model is quantized, you can push the model to the Hub with the [`~ModelMixin.push_to_hub`] method.
The quantization `config.json` file is pushed first, followed by the quantized model weights.
You can also save the serialized 8-bit models locally with [`~ModelMixin.save_pretrained`].

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="4-bit">

> Quantizing a model in 4-bit reduces your memory-usage by 4x:
> 
> As `bitsandbytes` is supported in both `transformers` and `diffusers` we can quantize both the
> `FluxTransformer2DModel` and `T5EncoderModel`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quantizing a model in 4-bit reduces your memory-usage by 4x.

bitsandbytes` is supported in both Transformers and Diffusers, so you can can quantize both the
[`FluxTransformer2DModel`] and [`~transformers.T5EncoderModel`].
```

```py
from diffusers import BitsAndBytesConfig as DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig
from transformers import BitsAndBytesConfig as TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig

from diffusers import FluxTransformer2DModel
from transformers import T5EncoderModel

quant_config = TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
)

text_encoder_2_4bit = T5EncoderModel.from_pretrained(

>     "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
```

    subfolder="text_encoder_2",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)

quant_config = DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
)

transformer_4bit = FluxTransformer2DModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="transformer",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)
```

By default, all the other modules such as `torch.nn.LayerNorm` are converted to `torch.float16`.

> You can change the data type of these modules with the `torch_dtype` parameter if you want:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can change the data type of these modules with the `torch_dtype` parameter.
```

text_encoder_2_4bit = T5EncoderModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev,
    subfolder="text_encoder_2",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)

quant_config = DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
)

transformer_4bit = FluxTransformer2DModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="transformer",
    quantization_config=quantization_config
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)
```

By default, all the other modules such as `torch.nn.LayerNorm` are converted to `torch.float16`. You can change the data type of these modules with the `torch_dtype` parameter if you want:
By default, all the other modules such as `torch.nn.LayerNorm` are converted to `torch.float16`.
You can change the data type of these modules with the `torch_dtype` parameter if you want:

```py

> from diffusers import FluxTransformer2DModel, BitsAndBytesConfig

Reviewer 2: A partial code snippet would suffice here as well.

    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float32,
)
```

Let's generate an image using our quantized models.

```py
pipe = FluxPipeline.from_pretrained(

>     "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
```

    transformer=transformer_4bit,
    text_encoder_2=text_encoder_2_4bit,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device_map="auto",
)

pipe_kwargs = {
    "prompt": "A cat holding a sign that says hello world",
    "height": 1024,
    "width": 1024,
    "guidance_scale": 3.5,
    "num_inference_steps": 50,
    "max_sequence_length": 512,
}

image = pipe(
    generator=torch.Generator("cpu").manual_seed(0),
    **pipe_kwargs,
).images[0]

image.resize((224, 224))
```

> ![4 bit image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/quant-bnb/4bit.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<div class="flex justify-center">
   <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/quant-bnb/4bit.png"/>
</div>
```

)

pipe_kwargs = {
    "prompt": "A cat holding a sign that says hello world",
    "height": 1024,
    "width": 1024,
    "guidance_scale": 3.5,
    "num_inference_steps": 50,
    "max_sequence_length": 512,
}

image = pipe(**pipe_kwargs, generator=torch.manual_seed(0),).images[0]
```

<div class="flex justify-center">
   <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/quant-bnb/8bit.png"/>
</div>

When there is enough memory, you can also directly move the pipeline to the GPU with `.to("cuda") and apply [`~DiffusionPipeline.enable_model_cpu_offload`] to optimize GPU memory usage.

Once a model is quantized, you can push the model to the Hub with the [`~ModelMixin.push_to_hub`] method. The quantization `config.json` file is pushed first, followed by the quantized model weights. You can also save the serialized 8-bit models locally with [`~ModelMixin.save_pretrained`].

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="4-bit">

Quantizing a model in 4-bit reduces your memory-usage by 4x:

bitsandbytes is supported in both Transformers and Diffusers, so you can can quantize both the
[`FluxTransformer2DModel`] and [`~transformers.T5EncoderModel`].

> > [!Note]

Reviewer 2: Need to make the same changes to the 4-bit section here too :)

Author: I apologise for missing it!

I have added the same updated to the 4-bit section as well.

Quantizing a model in 8-bit halves the memory-usage:

bitsandbytes is supported in both Transformers and Diffusers, so you can quantize both the
[`FluxTransformer2DModel`] and [`~transformers.T5EncoderModel`].

```py
from diffusers import BitsAndBytesConfig as DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig
from transformers import BitsAndBytesConfig as TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig

from diffusers import FluxTransformer2DModel
from transformers import T5EncoderModel

> quant_config = TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig(
>     load_in_8bit=True,
> )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
quant_config = TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig(load_in_8bit=True)
```

applies elsewhere as well.

text_encoder_2_8bit = T5EncoderModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="text_encoder_2",
    quantization_config=quant_config,

>     torch_dtype=torch.float16,

Reviewer: We could add a note about the `torch_dtype` here. I am thinking of something like so:

> Depending on the GPU, set your `torch_dtype`. For Ada and higher series GPUs support `torch.bfloat16` and we suggest using it when applicable.

@stevhliu any suggestions?

)

quant_config = DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_8bit=True,
)

transformer_8bit = FluxTransformer2DModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="transformer",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)
```

By default, all the other modules such as `torch.nn.LayerNorm` are converted to `torch.float16`. You can change the data type of these modules with the `torch_dtype` parameter.

```py
transformer_8bit = FluxTransformer2DModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="transformer",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float32,

> )

Reviewer: Maybe we could show this in a `diff` rather than `py` block as the only difference here (compared to the above snippets) is `torch_dtype`? So, I would do:

```diff
transformer_8bit = FluxTransformer2DModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="transformer",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
+    torch_dtype=torch.float32,
)
```

```

Let's generate an image using our quantized models.

Setting `device_map="auto"` automatically fills all available space on the GPU(s) first, then the
CPU, and finally, the hard drive (the absolute slowest option) if there is still not enough memory.

```py
pipe = FluxPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    transformer=transformer_8bit,
    text_encoder_2=text_encoder_2_8bit,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device_map="auto",
)

pipe_kwargs = {
    "prompt": "A cat holding a sign that says hello world",
    "height": 1024,
    "width": 1024,
    "guidance_scale": 3.5,
    "num_inference_steps": 50,
    "max_sequence_length": 512,
}

> image = pipe(
>     generator=torch.Generator("cpu").manual_seed(0),
>     **pipe_kwargs,
> ).images[0]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image = pipe(**pipe_kwargs, generator=torch.manual_seed(0)).images[0]
```

Shorter and does the same thing.

> image.resize((224, 224))

Reviewer: I don't think we have to show this line of code here. 
```suggestion
```

```

<div class="flex justify-center">
   <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/quant-bnb/8bit.png"/>
</div>

> 

Reviewer: Would it also make sense to comment on the following things:

* When memory permits, users can directly move the pipeline to the GPU by doing `to("cuda")`. 
* To go easy on the memory, they can also use `enable_model_cpu_offload()`.

Once a model is quantized, you can push the model to the Hub with the [`~ModelMixin.push_to_hub`] method. The quantization `config.json` file is pushed first, followed by the quantized model weights. You can also save the serialized 8-bit models locally with [`~ModelMixin.save_pretrained`].

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="4-bit">

Quantizing a model in 4-bit reduces your memory-usage by 4x:

bitsandbytes is supported in both Transformers and Diffusers, so you can can quantize both the
[`FluxTransformer2DModel`] and [`~transformers.T5EncoderModel`].

> 

Reviewer: We can add a little `[!NOTE]` here saying that here we usually don't quantize the `CLIPTextModel` as it's small enough and the `AutoencoderKL` because it doesn't contain too many `torch.nn.Linear` layers.

    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)
```

By default, all the other modules such as `torch.nn.LayerNorm` are converted to `torch.float16`. You can change the data type of these modules with the `torch_dtype` parameter.

```py
transformer_4bit = FluxTransformer2DModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="transformer",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float32,
)
```

Let's generate an image using our quantized models.

Setting `device_map="auto"` automatically fills all available space on the GPU(s) first, then the CPU, and finally, the hard drive (the absolute slowest option) if there is still not enough memory.

```py
pipe = FluxPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    transformer=transformer_4bit,
    text_encoder_2=text_encoder_2_4bit,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device_map="auto",
)

pipe_kwargs = {
    "prompt": "A cat holding a sign that says hello world",
    "height": 1024,
    "width": 1024,
    "guidance_scale": 3.5,
    "num_inference_steps": 50,
    "max_sequence_length": 512,
}

image = pipe(
    generator=torch.Generator("cpu").manual_seed(0),
    **pipe_kwargs,
).images[0]

> image.resize((224, 224))

Reviewer: Same as above.

Quantizing a model in 8-bit halves the memory-usage:

bitsandbytes is supported in both Transformers and Diffusers, so you can quantize both the
[`FluxTransformer2DModel`] and [`~transformers.T5EncoderModel`].

> > [!Note]
> > Depending on the GPU, set your `torch_dtype`. For Ada and higher series GPUs support `torch.bfloat16` and we suggest using it when applicable.

Reviewer 2: You can make the same changes to the 4-bit section

```suggestion
For Ada and higher-series GPUs. we recommend changing `torch_dtype` to `torch.bfloat16`.
```

> > [!Note]
> > We do not qunatize the `CLIPTextModel` and the `AutoencoderKL` due to their small size, and also for the fact that `AutoencoderKL` has very few `torch.nn.Linear` layers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> [!TIP]
> The [`CLIPTextModel`] and [`AutoencoderKL`] aren't quantized because they're already small in size and because [`AutoencoderKL`] only has a few `torch.nn.Linear` layers.
```

```diff
transformer_8bit = FluxTransformer2DModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="transformer",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
+   torch_dtype=torch.float32,
)
```

Let's generate an image using our quantized models.

Setting `device_map="auto"` automatically fills all available space on the GPU(s) first, then the
CPU, and finally, the hard drive (the absolute slowest option) if there is still not enough memory.

```py
pipe = FluxPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    transformer=transformer_8bit,
    text_encoder_2=text_encoder_2_8bit,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device_map="auto",
)

pipe_kwargs = {
    "prompt": "A cat holding a sign that says hello world",
    "height": 1024,
    "width": 1024,
    "guidance_scale": 3.5,
    "num_inference_steps": 50,
    "max_sequence_length": 512,
}

image = pipe(**pipe_kwargs, generator=torch.manual_seed(0),).images[0]
```

<div class="flex justify-center">
   <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/quant-bnb/8bit.png"/>
</div>

> > [!Note]
> > When memory permits, one can directly mode the pipeline (`pipe` here) to the GPU using the `.to("cuda")` API.
> > One can also use the `enable_model_cpu_offload()` to optimize GPU VRAM usage.

Reviewer 2: Move this above, right before the code snippet (same for 4-bit section)

```suggestion
When there is enough memory, you can also directly move the pipeline to the GPU with `.to("cuda") and apply [`~DiffusionPipeline.enable_model_cpu_offload`] to optimize GPU memory usage.
```

Once a model is quantized, you can push the model to the Hub with the [`~ModelMixin.push_to_hub`] method. The quantization `config.json` file is pushed first, followed by the quantized model weights. You can also save the serialized 8-bit models locally with [`~ModelMixin.save_pretrained`].

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="4-bit">

Quantizing a model in 4-bit reduces your memory-usage by 4x:

bitsandbytes is supported in both Transformers and Diffusers, so you can can quantize both the
[`FluxTransformer2DModel`] and [`~transformers.T5EncoderModel`].

> [!Note]
> Depending on the GPU, set your `torch_dtype`. For Ada and higher series GPUs support `torch.bfloat16` and we suggest using it when applicable.

> [!Note]

> > We do not qunatize the `CLIPTextModel` and the `AutoencoderKL` due to their small size, and also for the fact that `AutoencoderKL` has very few `torch.nn.Linear` layers.

Reviewer: We already added it above no? Or is this for separate 8bit and 4bit sections?

Author: > Or is this for separate 8bit and 4bit sections?

As I understand it, we need to make the text same for both the sections to have parity in the tabs.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/abf027f1-83f9-4979-9854-163a8d227388)

    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)
```

## Dequantizing `bitsandbytes` models

Once quantized, you can dequantize a model to its original precision, but this might result in a small loss of quality. Make sure you have enough GPU RAM to fit the dequantized model. 

```python
from diffusers import BitsAndBytesConfig as DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig
from transformers import BitsAndBytesConfig as TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig

from diffusers import FluxTransformer2DModel
from transformers import T5EncoderModel

quant_config = TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
    bnb_4bit_use_double_quant=True,
)

text_encoder_2_4bit = T5EncoderModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="text_encoder_2",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)

quant_config = DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
    bnb_4bit_use_double_quant=True,
)

transformer_4bit = FluxTransformer2DModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="transformer",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)

text_encoder_2_4bit.dequantize()

> transformer_4bit.dequantize()

Reviewer: This is better thank you!

### Normal Float 4 (NF4)

NF4 is a 4-bit data type from the [QLoRA](https://hf.co/papers/2305.14314) paper, adapted for
weights initialized from a normal distribution. You should use NF4 for training 4-bit base models.
This can be configured with the `bnb_4bit_quant_type` parameter in the [`BitsAndBytesConfig`]:

```py
from diffusers import BitsAndBytesConfig as DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig
from transformers import BitsAndBytesConfig as TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig

from diffusers import FluxTransformer2DModel
from transformers import T5EncoderModel

quant_config = TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
    bnb_4bit_quant_type="nf4",
)

text_encoder_2_4bit = T5EncoderModel.from_pretrained(

>     "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
```

    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)

quant_config = DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
    bnb_4bit_quant_type="nf4",
)

transformer_4bit = FluxTransformer2DModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="transformer",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)
```

For inference, the `bnb_4bit_quant_type` does not have a huge impact on performance. However, to
remain consistent with the model weights, you should use the `bnb_4bit_compute_dtype` and
`torch_dtype` values.

### Nested quantization

Nested quantization is a technique that can save additional memory at no additional performance cost.
This feature performs a second quantization of the already quantized weights to save an additional
0.4 bits/parameter. 

```py
from diffusers import BitsAndBytesConfig as DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig
from transformers import BitsAndBytesConfig as TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig

from diffusers import FluxTransformer2DModel
from transformers import T5EncoderModel

quant_config = TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
    bnb_4bit_use_double_quant=True,
)

text_encoder_2_4bit = T5EncoderModel.from_pretrained(

>     "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
```

    subfolder="text_encoder_2",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)

quant_config = DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
    bnb_4bit_use_double_quant=True,
)

transformer_4bit = FluxTransformer2DModel.from_pretrained(
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
    subfolder="transformer",
    quantization_config=quant_config,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
)
```

## Dequantizing `bitsandbytes` models

> Once quantized, you can dequantize the model to the original precision but this might result in a
> small quality loss of the model. Make sure you have enough GPU RAM to fit the dequantized model. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once quantized, you can dequantize a model to its original precision, but this might result in a
small loss of quality. Make sure you have enough GPU RAM to fit the dequantized model. 
```

```python
from diffusers import BitsAndBytesConfig as DiffusersBitsAndBytesConfig
from transformers import BitsAndBytesConfig as TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig

from diffusers import FluxTransformer2DModel
from transformers import T5EncoderModel

quant_config = TransformersBitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
    bnb_4bit_use_double_quant=True,
)

text_encoder_2_4bit = T5EncoderModel.from_pretrained(

>     "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev",
```
